flooding is a game and i don't play
games
well i kind of decided i wanted to be a
doctor when i was 16. what did i know
about it absolutely nothing you know is
this really the right thing for me
if you're in the habit of talking to old
people
like not so much my age maybe like
double it
they all have this familiar story
about how in their particular field
in their particular discipline there was
this one
golden generation of talented people
who came back from world war ii and that
somehow the unique circumstances
in the post-war reconstruction era just
produced these wonderful brilliant
well-intentioned people in their field
in their job and you know what you know
what it is
it's exactly what this idiot said just
now those people
didn't choose their profession when they
were 16 years old kind of decided i
wanted to be a doctor when i was 16 what
did i know about it absolutely nothing
do you know what world war ii
gave them time people came back
from world war ii and they were maybe 22
years old
or 24 years old and they were handed
a ticket for free tuition at all the
great universities in the western world
canada united states europe each of
these countries had a slightly different
deal but one way or another tuition was
either free or almost free for these
people
and they were older and more experienced
than people who decided what they wanted
to do at 16 years old
and you know of course there are many
ways in which i don't believe in the
glorification and nostalgia for the
post-war
generation but think about a discipline
like
anthropology i have met and spoken to
people
who decided that they wanted to be an
anthropologist at 16 years old they're
really screwed up people
and like how can i possibly communicate
to them
look kid you say you want to be an
anthropologist
you don't even really know the meaning
of the word like you think you do
you've looked it up in a dictionary
you've looked it up wikipedia but
there's a really
meaningful sense in which you don't
know what the study of anthropology is
like and you definitely don't know what
your career would be like after that
and people make these decisions as this
guy did to become medical doctors at 16
years of age
and yeah imagine how much different
this piece of shit's perspective on life
would have been
if when he was 16 years of age he had
maybe
a four or five year career in the
military
he might have come out of that with a
degree of self-knowledge
some particular interest in the world
some particular passion some sense of
direction
and yeah he might have just come back
with shell shock and ptsd
and you might have just become an
alcoholic and a gambler because after
world war ii
that happened a lot too guys you know as
i mentioned i'm kind of worried
that i'll wake up in the mornings and
not really know what to do with myself
i'm kind of worried that
when i do decide to go into a specialty
i actually won't like it and i'd want to
leave the specialty
and i'm worried that if i end up not
enjoying medicine
it won't be because of the medicine
itself it'll be because i am choosing
not to enjoy it
and i'm kind of worried that because in
a way because i've got the option to not
do it that i will choose to exercise
that option and that i'll end up
quitting medicine completely these
different streams of income i feel i've
gotten to a point where
i really don't need to rely on medicine
to
make money the original video is over 30
minutes long
you may not think i'm doing you a favor
by editing it down to just
two minutes but really i am and there
you heard
in about five seconds what his message
boils down to he got rich
he got famous right here on youtube
and now he's questioning why bother
being a medical doctor anyway
now if you saw my earlier youtube video
about this guy
you will have already guessed i'm making
this video
because i'm a bit stunned by the
contrast by his former
bragging outright bragging that he woke
up in the morning
and saved lives every day the
description
of his life of his heroism
on a daily basis as a doctor the
bragging he engaged in
about his education in the medical
sciences
and then the profession he was now
professing it's a
very very strange juxtaposition to this
blunt admission that now that he's got
fame and fortune on youtube waking up
and working at a hospital every day just
doesn't seem so
meaningful or rewarding after all there
are some people who absolutely love it
and
do it for fun and it also happens to
make money which is absolutely fantastic
but for me like i think if given the
choice the way that i've spent the last
two years is not how i would choose to
spend the rest of my life like i would
not actively choose
that on average five days a week and for
48 hours a week i'm gonna
drive an hour to work drive an hour back
and spend time in a hospital
i think what i would choose is that two
or three days a week i'd want to do
medicine because it's fun but i wouldn't
want to do it much more than that
there's one question of your devotion to
the art of medicine
and there's another question of your
devotion to the life
of public service helping people
i remember i spoke to a guy who
described to me
that he was the head of
ob gyn in a hospital
in africa so they dealt with delivering
babies among other things and he said
that on paper
his shift was supposed to be something
like 9 a.m to 5 p.m
but in reality 60 to 70 of the women
came in to give birth between the hours
of midnight and 4am
so the reality was like i think he said
to me like his kids went all the way
through primary school and he never once
saw them during daylight hours or
something
he worked impossibly long hours he was
awake all hours of the night but you
know
why that is
the job that's not a drawback
to the job that's not just part of the
job that is the
job and you know he wasn't from
africa originally i mean he moved there
to be a part of that struggle and do
that job and help those people
that's not his community it's not even
his
first language but he was devoted to
working with that little team of people
in that hospital and making that
department work and helping
whoever showed up pregnant with uh
some other problem needing that help i
mean that's that was his devotion to
that kind of
public service and sure i mean i do
think you know on a personal level
it may be your devotion to your team
maybe your devotion to your department
that matters more in terms of motivating
you to get out of bed every day
keep doing the job rather than that more
abstract devotion to
the art or public service but sure
um you know the development of your
craft
matters too if you're not putting in the
hours if you're not devoted to this day
after day after day
and the other doctors around you are
how are they going to look at you and
how are you going to look at them when
it's like well hey
i got here last night at midnight and
worked till 5am
but not you huh you're a part-timer
you know maybe the other doctors would
be nice about it but there are a lot of
things in this life
where you know the question is look are
you devoted are you giving this
110 of what you have to give or not
because if it's or not get the hell out
because the rest of us are
you know and i admit you know
medicine it's a very limited art form
it's not like
painting or playing music we're putting
in more and more hours is going to make
you a better and better surgeon or a
better and better ob gyn specialist or
make you
10 better at delivering babies
but you know nevertheless i think i
think those are really meaningful
questions we all have to ask ourselves
about
what we're doing in our lives and i'm
self-critical about it
i mean there was a time when i was doing
humanitarian work there was a time when
i was in school to become a baker
and there are times when i'm studying
chinese and i have to ask myself can i
really be devoted to this as an art form
can i really be devoted to this as my
form of public service making the world
a better place as my role in society
am i really in this 100 percent or not
you have to have the honesty
to recognize that in many cases either
it's a hundred percent
or it's zero either you're in or you're
out
the other thing i worry about is that
well you know people are only following
me on youtube because i'm a doctor and i
went to cambridge and stuff
in a way i feel like i have the security
blanket of multiple streams of income
why this youtube channel and other
things to not have to do medicine notice
the wording he uses there he has the
money
to not have to do medicine maybe this is
the tragedy of choosing
choosing your major at age 16. in a way
i feel like i have the security blanket
of multiple streams of income
by this youtube channel and other things
to not have to do medicine you have the
money
to not practice medicine that
i'm just saying it's a little quick turn
of phrase there but it tells you on a
pretty deep level
how it is he thinks about this but if i
wasn't a doctor would my youtube channel
be a successful probably not
that show business even now kind of with
the size of this youtube channel and
the streams of income lol it still feels
like a house of cards that could come
crumbling down at any moment
and i still kind of feel a sense of
every time we put out a video and it
does badly on the analytics i think
you know it's the beginning of the end
now people have realized that i'm a
fraud and my youtube channel's not worth
anything and it's gonna
unravel and that's show business
the stresses of having a normal job is
like what does my boss say
think of me and am i going to get that
promotion so it's it's a different sort
of stress
kind of doing this sort of entrepreneur
self-employed business lifestyle type
thing that i'm
doubling with okay say it with me one
more time
that's show business and of course the
peculiar thing about youtube
is that it brings together people of
such diverse backgrounds
people who started studying for their
medical exams at age 16
had this preconceived notion their life
would be all wrapped up in
chemistry biology the applied sciences
and medicine and so on and so forth
they thought that would be the world
that they inhabit and then they find
themselves
suddenly and unexpectedly instead
in this world of theater broadcasting
and yes yes y'all show business that's
kind of what it feels like on the inside
um and so every time we do get a video
it doesn't perform well you know every
day when i
kind of look at the stats and see the
comments from people and get the dms on
instagram and stuff i almost can't
can't believe that it's real and i think
that's partly where the the fear comes
from that all of this could come
crumbling down at any moment
you might have noticed that he referred
to himself as an entrepreneur
and not an entertainer not a filmmaker i
think he is
pretty fundamentally still in denial but
the extent to which he has gotten
himself a job in show business
or you could say he had a hobby in show
business and he's let it take over his
life he's let it take over to his life
to the point where he has not dropped
out of med school
dropped out of the medical profession
when he'd finished med school and when
he'd actually finished his period of
internship as a junior doctor who does
this remind me of
hmm jacqueline glenn youtube's original
med school dropout who has now become
in medieval european parlance the [ __ ]
of babylon
it's in revelations people
the problem with youtube is that people
lose their sense of purpose they lose
the sense
of meaning and mandate that motivated
them to come on camera
and deliver their message in the first
place and jacqueline glenn may be a
terrible example of a whole lot of
things but she's a perfect example
of precisely that pattern
[Music]
the tragedy is that she was in med
school
and she started making youtube videos to
talk about atheism
because she felt she understood and
could explain
you know the theory of evolution better
than other people who were
on youtube engaged in those debates at
the time including by the way the
amazing atheist
a major part of how her channel grew was
that she did collaborative videos the
amazing atheist
funny little story and just look at her
now now
what i'm concerned about here are not
the optics i'm not here concerned about
her hair
her makeup her dress or her bikini
or lack of bikini that really doesn't
interest me
my concern is precisely about the
distinction between
having a sense of motivation a mandate
that you came on this platform in the
first place to make meaningful content
to make the world a better place as a
filmmaker
no matter how humble or low budget our
filmmaking process may be here as
youtubers
and then you lost that i mean
theoretically
you could dress up like jacqueline glenn
every day and you could take
you know you could sell sign photographs
of yourself in a bikini and all the rest
but really have a passionate sense of
mission and mandate
whether that's you know more on the
research side of things or on the
activism side of things
whatever it might be you could be doing
something meaningful
in a bikini and yet there's this strange
cycle
the the banality of youtube seems to
catch
up with these people because whether
they're aware of it or not
and in most cases like this i think it
is or not
they're being consumed by the show
business aspect
of what it is they do here they feel as
this guy's just explained to you
they feel nervous they feel unhappy
anytime their number of views declines
the
ratio of thumbs up to thumbs down is
against them they get drawn
into this life of chasing fame of
pursuing the largest possible audience
which is of course to say the lowest
common denominator and what they
lose along the way was precisely that
sense
of mission and mandate that made youtube
worth doing
back when it wasn't about the money
and you know what that's the most
meaningful question of all to ask about
medical school
why did you want to be a doctor back
when it
wasn't about the money why would you or
would you not want to be a doctor
now if it wasn't about the money
because the truth is the amount of money
you make
as a medical doctor it will never be
enough
it will never compensate you for the
loss of your time
the loss of your sleep the loss of your
dignity you can never
pay someone enough money to wipe the poo
off of somebody who's suffering from
diarrhea
they have to on some deep level of
personal commitment
feel there's something really meaningful
about being a part of that struggle and
that really does save lives diarrhea
really does kill people all around the
world today every day
if you don't feel positive with that if
you don't feel motivated
to be in that struggle for so many
reasons that have nothing to do with
money
you know what quit now and i can say the
same damn thing about youtube
say the same thing about show business
think about all the reasons that were
there
before the money that are still there
now outside of above and beyond the
money
if you're not devoted to the art form if
you're not devoted because of some sense
of making the world a better place some
kind of public duty
ask yourself what is it you're devoted
to what are you doing
with the rest of your life the money
will never
be enough